PHP8.0 announcement for customers (#1369)
spryker/spryker-docs: docs/scos/user/intro-to-spryker/whats-new/php8-as-starting-point.md

---
title: Spryker now requires PHP 8.0 as the minimum version for all projects
description: In the coming weeks, Spryker will release a new version of its demo shops requiring PHP 8.0 as the minimum version - support for the PHP 7.4 version will be stopped. Spryker's new module releases will only be compatible with PHP 8.0 version or superior.
last_updated: November 14, 2022
template: concept-topic-template
---

In the coming weeks, Spryker will release a new version of its demo shops requiring PHP 8.0 as the minimum version - support for the PHP 7.4 version will be stopped. Spryker's new module releases will only be compatible with PHP 8.0 version or superior.

## Impacts

We broke no backward compatibility. If your project followed our advice and requirements in the past twelve months, you will experience no upgradeability issues.

## Migration steps

### Step 1

Update your modules manually in `composer.json`.

> Please use major lock `^` or minor lock `~` if you have changes on the project level or not.

Reviewer: do you mean "irrespective of whether you have changes on the project level or not?"

Reviewer 2: maybe clarify that this is specific to those modules
```suggestion
Please use major lock `^` or minor lock `~` if you have changes on the project level for respective module constraints.
```

```php
spryker/cms-block-gui => 2.8.0
codeception/codeception => 4.1.24
codeception/lib-innerbrowser => 1.3.3
codeception/module-phpbrowser => 1.0.1
psalm/phar => 4.3.1
roave/better-reflection => 5.0.0
spryker-sdk/benchmark => 0.2.2
spryker-sdk/spryk => 0.3.4
spryker-sdk/spryk-gui => 0.2.2
```

### Step 2

Change the PHP version in the `composer.json`

`config.platform.php => 8.0`

### Step 3

Remove the following repositories from your `composer.json`

> Please make sure that there are no project-specific changes there.

Reviewer: but if there are some project-specific changes in composer.json? What should be done in this case?

Author: Good question... @dereuromark what could happen then? Does it matter?

Reviewer 2: If there are, then they need to migrate away from it, or own the whole topic (copying over all of it), which is highly unlikely.

Reviewer: @dereuromark do you mean in this case they should refuse from their changes or copy them manually? If they choose to copy, where do they copy the changes?

Reviewer 2: Project level, core becomes Project code
